README.md, before:

# Race-Photos

My photos from various races, organized and displayed in a beautiful web gallery.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Race-Photos/
├── scripts/              # Batch download scripts for photos
│   ├── download_photos.py      # Download photos from API responses
│   ├── download_runnerbar.py   # Download photos from RunnerBar API
│   ├── download_yipai360.py    # Download photos from Yipai360 API
│   ├── download_photoplus.py   # Download photos from PhotoPlus API
│   ├── download_pailixiang.py  # Download photos from Pailixiang API
│   ├── download_runff.py      # Download photos from RunFF API
│   ├── download_ihuipao.py    # Download photos from iHuiPao API
│   ├── download_strava_gpx.py  # Download GPX routes from Strava API
│   ├── fix_gpx_elevation.py    # Fix barometric altimeter errors in GPX
│   ├── generate_manifest.py    # Generate gallery manifest
│   ├── serve.py               # Local dev server (no cache)
│   ├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
│   └── README.md              # Scripts documentation
├── docs/                 # GitHub Pages site
│   ├── index.html             # Main gallery page
│   ├── styles.css             # Gallery styles
│   ├── app.js                 # Gallery JavaScript
│   ├── routes/                # GPX route files
│   │   └── {race}.gpx         # GPS route data
│   └── images/                # Downloaded photos & videos
│       ├── {race}/            # Race directories
│       │   └── {source}/      # Source directories
│       │       ├── *.jpg      # Photo files
│       │       ├── *.mp4      # Video files
│       │       ├── race_info.json    # Race metadata (committed)
│       │       └── photos_list.json  # Photo metadata (committed)
│       └── manifest.json      # Gallery manifest
└── README.md            # This file
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
cd scripts
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Download Photos

Save API response to a JSON file, then run:

```bash
python scripts/download_photos.py <json_file> <race> <source>
```

**Example:**
```bash
python scripts/download_photos.py marathon_api.json marathon2024 official
```

This downloads photos to: `docs/images/marathon2024/official/`

### 3. Generate Gallery Manifest

After downloading photos, update the gallery:

```bash
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

### 4. View Gallery

Start a local development server (with cache disabled) and open in browser:

```bash
python scripts/serve.py
```

Then visit http://localhost:8080, or enable GitHub Pages to view online.

## 📸 Usage Examples

### Download from RunnerBar API

Download photos directly from RunnerBar API:

```bash
# From API URL (extracts parameters automatically)
python scripts/download_runnerbar.py --url "https://apiface.store.runnerbar.com/yundong/faceSearch/getFaceAndGameNumSearchPhotoV2.json?uid=3256630&activity_id=28183&face_id=7851335&game_number=B51278&photoNum=200&pl_id=3245790&source=h5"

# Or with explicit parameters
python scripts/download_runnerbar.py --activity-id 28183 --uid 3256630 --face-id 7851335 --game-number B51278 --pl-id 3245790

# Or with minimal parameters
python scripts/download_runnerbar.py --activity-id 28183 --uid 3256630

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

The script will:
1. Fetch race information to get the race name
2. Fetch photos list from the API
3. Download all photos to `docs/images/{race_name}/runnerbar/`

### Download from Yipai360 API

Download photos from Yipai360 using OCR-based bib number search:

```bash
# Search and download photos by bib number
python scripts/download_yipai360.py --order-id 202311222019389358 --bib H1369

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

The `order-id` can be found in the Yipai360 photo live URL (e.g., `https://www.yipai360.com/photolivepc/?orderId=202311222019389358`).

The script will:
1. Fetch race information (name, location, date)
2. Search photos by bib number via OCR recognition
3. Download original photos (without watermark) to `docs/images/{race_name}/yipai360/`
4. Read EXIF metadata and set file timestamps

### Download from PhotoPlus API

Download photos from PhotoPlus (live.photoplus.cn) using bib number or face search:

```bash
# The API requires signed URLs. Open the race page in your browser, search by bib number
# or face photo, and copy the network request URL from DevTools (F12 → Network tab).

# Bib number search:
python scripts/download_photoplus.py --url "https://live.photoplus.cn/home/pic/self/recognize?list=70266832,74915292&number=30483&..."

# Face search:
python scripts/download_photoplus.py --url "https://live.photoplus.cn/home/findme/activitys/pic?url=...&hash=...&activityNos=...&..."

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

> **Note:** The `_s` (signature) and `_t` (timestamp) parameters expire quickly. You must provide a fresh URL each time.

The script will:
1. Fetch photos from the signed API URL
2. Download original photos (without watermark) to `docs/images/{race_name}/photoplus/`
3. Set file timestamps from EXIF metadata

### Download from Pailixiang API

Download photos from Pailixiang (pailixiang.com) using bib number search:

```bash
# You need two IDs from the browser:
# 1. album-page-id: from the URL (e.g., "ia3939628040" from album_ia3939628040.html)
# 2. album-id: from the search POST body in DevTools (a UUID like "a94acb7b-...")

python scripts/download_pailixiang.py \
  --album-page-id ia3939628040 \
  --album-id a94acb7b-8339-429a-ace2-26b8edfcba29 \
  --bib M01080 \
  --place 江苏苏州

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

To find the `album-id`: open the race page, search your bib number, then check the POST request body in DevTools (F12 → Network tab) for the `albumId` field.

The script will:
1. Initialize session from the album page
2. Search photos by bib number
3. Download original photos to `docs/images/{race_name}/pailixiang/`
4. Set file timestamps from ShootTime metadata

### Download from RunFF API

Download photos from RunFF (www.runff.com / chinarun.com) using bib number search:

```bash
# You need three IDs from the browser's network request:
# 1. race-id: from the URL (e.g., "4039" from s4039.html)
# 2. fid: from the getPhotoList request body <fid> field
# 3. bib: your bib number (e.g., "B30483")

# Authentication cookie is required - copy it from browser DevTools
python scripts/download_runff.py \
  --race-id 4039 \
  --fid 24584147 \
  --bib B30483 \
  --race-name "苏州环阳山半程马拉松" \
  --cookie "bxmssmemberinfo=userinfo=..."

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

To find the parameters: open the race page on RunFF WeChat mini program, search your bib number, then check the POST request in DevTools for the XML body containing `<fid>` and `<number>` fields.

The script will:
1. Search photos by bib number via the XML API
2. Download "big" resolution photos from CDN (`p.chinarun.com`)
3. Set file timestamps from Unix timestamp metadata

### Download from iHuiPao API

Download photos from iHuiPao (api.ihuipao.com) using face search, ID card, or purchased photos:

```bash
# Download purchased photos (requires API token from browser DevTools)
python scripts/download_ihuipao.py \
  --token "YOUR_TOKEN" \
  --race-name "2023COLMO环蠡湖半程马拉松" \
  --race-id "BKn6NygxDqkP0qPZebWM" \
  --mode purchases

# Search by face image URL
python scripts/download_ihuipao.py \
  --token "YOUR_TOKEN" \
  --race-name "2023COLMO环蠡湖半程马拉松" \
  --album-id "Xn6MVGlkDod2jwvZWQB3" \
  --face-url "https://stor.ihuipao.com/image/..." \
  --mode face

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

To find the parameters: open the iHuiPao WeChat mini program, use browser DevTools to capture the API requests, and copy the `_token` from any request body.

The script will:
1. Fetch race information
2. Search/retrieve photos via the selected mode
3. Download original photos (without watermark) from Huawei OBS CDN
4. Set file timestamps from shoot_at metadata

### Download from Different Sources

```bash
# Download from official photographer
python scripts/download_photos.py official_response.json marathon2024 official

# Download from another source
python scripts/download_photos.py photographer_a.json marathon2024 photographerA

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

### Download GPX Routes from Strava

Download GPX route files from Strava API for race detail maps:

```bash
# First-time setup: run OAuth flow to get access token (saved to strava_token.json)
# Then download GPX by Strava activity ID:
python scripts/download_strava_gpx.py 17456965834 -o "docs/routes/MyRace.gpx"

# Auto-name from activity title:
python scripts/download_strava_gpx.py 17456965834

# Fix barometric altimeter calibration errors at start of GPX:
python scripts/fix_gpx_elevation.py docs/routes/MyRace.gpx          # fix in-place
python scripts/fix_gpx_elevation.py docs/routes/MyRace.gpx --dry-run # preview only

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

> **Design Decision:** GPX routes are pre-downloaded as static files and committed to the repository, rather than fetched from Strava API at runtime. This is because the gallery is hosted on GitHub Pages (static site) and calling the Strava API from the frontend would expose the access token to anyone visiting the site. The token file (`strava_token.json`) is gitignored to prevent credential leaks.

### Supported JSON Formats

The download script handles various API response formats automatically:

**Type 1: Direct photos array**
```json
{
  "photos": [
    {"url": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "id": "123"}
  ]
}
```

**Type 2: Items array**
```json
{
  "items": [
    {"image_url": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "photo_id": "123"}
  ]
}
```

**Type 3: Nested data structure**
```json
{
  "data": {
    "images": [
      {"src": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "identifier": "123"}
    ]
  }
}
```

**Type 4: RunnerBar API format**
```json
{
  "topicInfoList": [
    {"url_hq": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "photoId": "123"}
  ]
}
```

## 🌐 GitHub Pages

To enable GitHub Pages:

1. Go to repository Settings → Pages
2. Set Source to "Deploy from a branch"
3. Select branch: `main`, folder: `/docs`
4. Save

Your gallery will be available at: `https://<username>.github.io/Race-Photos/`

## 🎨 Gallery Features

- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- **Organized by Races**: Photos grouped by race events, sorted by date
- **Multiple Sources**: Support for photos from different platforms (RunnerBar, Yipai360, PhotoPlus, Pailixiang, RunFF, iHuiPao)
- **Interactive Map**: Overview map with clustered race markers, detail map with GPX route and photo markers
- **GPX Route Display**: Race route with km distance markers and photo positions along the route
- **Performance Chart**: Elevation, pace, and heart rate chart from GPX data
- **Photo Grouping**: Photos grouped by time proximity with pace/HR metrics
- **Lightbox View**: Click any photo or video to view full size
- **Video Support**: Videos displayed with play icon overlay, hover-to-preview, and full playback in lightbox
- **Lazy Loading**: Photos load as you scroll for better performance

## ⚡ Download Optimization

The download scripts are optimized for efficiency:

- **Smart Skip Existing**: Checks if files already exist before downloading
  - Detects previously downloaded photos by filename
  - Skips re-downloading, displays "⊙ Skipped (exists): {filename}"
  - Significantly speeds up re-runs
  - Reduces unnecessary network requests
  - Safe to run multiple times
- **API Response Caching**: Falls back to cached data if API is unavailable
- **Resume Support**: Can resume interrupted downloads

## 💾 Metadata Preservation

The download scripts automatically save API responses as JSON files alongside photos:

- **race_info.json**: Race metadata (title, date, location, etc.) committed to Git
- **photos_list.json**: Photo metadata (camera info, GPS, timestamps, etc.) committed to Git

These files provide:
- **API Resilience**: Work offline if API is unavailable
- **Historical Data**: Preserve race information even if API changes
- **Future Enhancement**: Rich metadata available for gallery features
- **Debugging**: Raw API responses for troubleshooting

## 📝 License

All photos are property of their respective owners.

Commit message:

Move scripts to private submodule (Race-Photos-Scripts)

README.md, after:

# Race-Photos

My photos from various races, organized and displayed in a beautiful web gallery.

## 📁 Project Structure

```
Race-Photos/
├── scripts/              # Private submodule (Race-Photos-Scripts)
│   ├── download_photos.py      # Download photos from API responses
│   ├── download_runnerbar.py   # Download photos from RunnerBar API
│   ├── download_yipai360.py    # Download photos from Yipai360 API
│   ├── download_photoplus.py   # Download photos from PhotoPlus API
│   ├── download_pailixiang.py  # Download photos from Pailixiang API
│   ├── download_runff.py      # Download photos from RunFF API
│   ├── download_ihuipao.py    # Download photos from iHuiPao API
│   ├── download_strava_gpx.py  # Download GPX routes from Strava API
│   ├── fix_gpx_elevation.py    # Fix barometric altimeter errors in GPX
│   ├── generate_manifest.py    # Generate gallery manifest
│   ├── serve.py               # Local dev server (no cache)
│   ├── requirements.txt        # Python dependencies
│   └── README.md              # Scripts documentation
├── docs/                 # GitHub Pages site
│   ├── index.html             # Main gallery page
│   ├── styles.css             # Gallery styles
│   ├── app.js                 # Gallery JavaScript
│   ├── routes/                # GPX route files
│   │   └── {race}.gpx         # GPS route data
│   └── images/                # Downloaded photos & videos
│       ├── {race}/            # Race directories
│       │   └── {source}/      # Source directories
│       │       ├── *.jpg      # Photo files
│       │       ├── *.mp4      # Video files
│       │       ├── race_info.json    # Race metadata (committed)
│       │       └── photos_list.json  # Photo metadata (committed)
│       └── manifest.json      # Gallery manifest
└── README.md            # This file
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Clone with Submodule

The download scripts are stored in a private submodule. Clone with:

```bash
git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/laqieer/Race-Photos.git

# Or if already cloned:
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

> **Note:** The `scripts/` submodule points to a private repo ([Race-Photos-Scripts](https://github.com/laqieer/Race-Photos-Scripts)). You need access to clone it. The gallery itself works without the submodule — only the download/management scripts require it.

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
cd scripts
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 3. Download Photos

Save API response to a JSON file, then run:

```bash
python scripts/download_photos.py <json_file> <race> <source>
```

**Example:**
```bash
python scripts/download_photos.py marathon_api.json marathon2024 official
```

This downloads photos to: `docs/images/marathon2024/official/`

### 4. Generate Gallery Manifest

After downloading photos, update the gallery:

```bash
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

### 5. View Gallery

Start a local development server (with cache disabled) and open in browser:

```bash
python scripts/serve.py
```

Then visit http://localhost:8080, or enable GitHub Pages to view online.

## 📸 Usage Examples

### Download from RunnerBar API

Download photos directly from RunnerBar API:

```bash
# From API URL (extracts parameters automatically)
python scripts/download_runnerbar.py --url "https://apiface.store.runnerbar.com/yundong/faceSearch/getFaceAndGameNumSearchPhotoV2.json?uid=3256630&activity_id=28183&face_id=7851335&game_number=B51278&photoNum=200&pl_id=3245790&source=h5"

# Or with explicit parameters
python scripts/download_runnerbar.py --activity-id 28183 --uid 3256630 --face-id 7851335 --game-number B51278 --pl-id 3245790

# Or with minimal parameters
python scripts/download_runnerbar.py --activity-id 28183 --uid 3256630

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

The script will:
1. Fetch race information to get the race name
2. Fetch photos list from the API
3. Download all photos to `docs/images/{race_name}/runnerbar/`

### Download from Yipai360 API

Download photos from Yipai360 using OCR-based bib number search:

```bash
# Search and download photos by bib number
python scripts/download_yipai360.py --order-id 202311222019389358 --bib H1369

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

The `order-id` can be found in the Yipai360 photo live URL (e.g., `https://www.yipai360.com/photolivepc/?orderId=202311222019389358`).

The script will:
1. Fetch race information (name, location, date)
2. Search photos by bib number via OCR recognition
3. Download original photos (without watermark) to `docs/images/{race_name}/yipai360/`
4. Read EXIF metadata and set file timestamps

### Download from PhotoPlus API

Download photos from PhotoPlus (live.photoplus.cn) using bib number or face search:

```bash
# The API requires signed URLs. Open the race page in your browser, search by bib number
# or face photo, and copy the network request URL from DevTools (F12 → Network tab).

# Bib number search:
python scripts/download_photoplus.py --url "https://live.photoplus.cn/home/pic/self/recognize?list=70266832,74915292&number=30483&..."

# Face search:
python scripts/download_photoplus.py --url "https://live.photoplus.cn/home/findme/activitys/pic?url=...&hash=...&activityNos=...&..."

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

> **Note:** The `_s` (signature) and `_t` (timestamp) parameters expire quickly. You must provide a fresh URL each time.

The script will:
1. Fetch photos from the signed API URL
2. Download original photos (without watermark) to `docs/images/{race_name}/photoplus/`
3. Set file timestamps from EXIF metadata

### Download from Pailixiang API

Download photos from Pailixiang (pailixiang.com) using bib number search:

```bash
# You need two IDs from the browser:
# 1. album-page-id: from the URL (e.g., "ia3939628040" from album_ia3939628040.html)
# 2. album-id: from the search POST body in DevTools (a UUID like "a94acb7b-...")

python scripts/download_pailixiang.py \
  --album-page-id ia3939628040 \
  --album-id a94acb7b-8339-429a-ace2-26b8edfcba29 \
  --bib M01080 \
  --place 江苏苏州

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

To find the `album-id`: open the race page, search your bib number, then check the POST request body in DevTools (F12 → Network tab) for the `albumId` field.

The script will:
1. Initialize session from the album page
2. Search photos by bib number
3. Download original photos to `docs/images/{race_name}/pailixiang/`
4. Set file timestamps from ShootTime metadata

### Download from RunFF API

Download photos from RunFF (www.runff.com / chinarun.com) using bib number search:

```bash
# You need three IDs from the browser's network request:
# 1. race-id: from the URL (e.g., "4039" from s4039.html)
# 2. fid: from the getPhotoList request body <fid> field
# 3. bib: your bib number (e.g., "B30483")

# Authentication cookie is required - copy it from browser DevTools
python scripts/download_runff.py \
  --race-id 4039 \
  --fid 24584147 \
  --bib B30483 \
  --race-name "苏州环阳山半程马拉松" \
  --cookie "bxmssmemberinfo=userinfo=..."

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

To find the parameters: open the race page on RunFF WeChat mini program, search your bib number, then check the POST request in DevTools for the XML body containing `<fid>` and `<number>` fields.

The script will:
1. Search photos by bib number via the XML API
2. Download "big" resolution photos from CDN (`p.chinarun.com`)
3. Set file timestamps from Unix timestamp metadata

### Download from iHuiPao API

Download photos from iHuiPao (api.ihuipao.com) using face search, ID card, or purchased photos:

```bash
# Download purchased photos (requires API token from browser DevTools)
python scripts/download_ihuipao.py \
  --token "YOUR_TOKEN" \
  --race-name "2023COLMO环蠡湖半程马拉松" \
  --race-id "BKn6NygxDqkP0qPZebWM" \
  --mode purchases

# Search by face image URL
python scripts/download_ihuipao.py \
  --token "YOUR_TOKEN" \
  --race-name "2023COLMO环蠡湖半程马拉松" \
  --album-id "Xn6MVGlkDod2jwvZWQB3" \
  --face-url "https://stor.ihuipao.com/image/..." \
  --mode face

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

To find the parameters: open the iHuiPao WeChat mini program, use browser DevTools to capture the API requests, and copy the `_token` from any request body.

The script will:
1. Fetch race information
2. Search/retrieve photos via the selected mode
3. Download original photos (without watermark) from Huawei OBS CDN
4. Set file timestamps from shoot_at metadata

### Download from Different Sources

```bash
# Download from official photographer
python scripts/download_photos.py official_response.json marathon2024 official

# Download from another source
python scripts/download_photos.py photographer_a.json marathon2024 photographerA

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

### Download GPX Routes from Strava

Download GPX route files from Strava API for race detail maps:

```bash
# First-time setup: run OAuth flow to get access token (saved to strava_token.json)
# Then download GPX by Strava activity ID:
python scripts/download_strava_gpx.py 17456965834 -o "docs/routes/MyRace.gpx"

# Auto-name from activity title:
python scripts/download_strava_gpx.py 17456965834

# Fix barometric altimeter calibration errors at start of GPX:
python scripts/fix_gpx_elevation.py docs/routes/MyRace.gpx          # fix in-place
python scripts/fix_gpx_elevation.py docs/routes/MyRace.gpx --dry-run # preview only

# Update gallery
python scripts/generate_manifest.py
```

> **Design Decision:** GPX routes are pre-downloaded as static files and committed to the repository, rather than fetched from Strava API at runtime. This is because the gallery is hosted on GitHub Pages (static site) and calling the Strava API from the frontend would expose the access token to anyone visiting the site. The token file (`strava_token.json`) is gitignored to prevent credential leaks.

### Supported JSON Formats

The download script handles various API response formats automatically:

**Type 1: Direct photos array**
```json
{
  "photos": [
    {"url": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "id": "123"}
  ]
}
```

**Type 2: Items array**
```json
{
  "items": [
    {"image_url": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "photo_id": "123"}
  ]
}
```

**Type 3: Nested data structure**
```json
{
  "data": {
    "images": [
      {"src": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "identifier": "123"}
    ]
  }
}
```

**Type 4: RunnerBar API format**
```json
{
  "topicInfoList": [
    {"url_hq": "https://example.com/photo1.jpg", "photoId": "123"}
  ]
}
```

## 🌐 GitHub Pages

To enable GitHub Pages:

1. Go to repository Settings → Pages
2. Set Source to "Deploy from a branch"
3. Select branch: `main`, folder: `/docs`
4. Save

Your gallery will be available at: `https://<username>.github.io/Race-Photos/`

## 🎨 Gallery Features

- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- **Organized by Races**: Photos grouped by race events, sorted by date
- **Multiple Sources**: Support for photos from different platforms (RunnerBar, Yipai360, PhotoPlus, Pailixiang, RunFF, iHuiPao)
- **Interactive Map**: Overview map with clustered race markers, detail map with GPX route and photo markers
- **GPX Route Display**: Race route with km distance markers and photo positions along the route
- **Performance Chart**: Elevation, pace, and heart rate chart from GPX data
- **Photo Grouping**: Photos grouped by time proximity with pace/HR metrics
- **Lightbox View**: Click any photo or video to view full size
- **Video Support**: Videos displayed with play icon overlay, hover-to-preview, and full playback in lightbox
- **Lazy Loading**: Photos load as you scroll for better performance

## ⚡ Download Optimization

The download scripts are optimized for efficiency:

- **Smart Skip Existing**: Checks if files already exist before downloading
  - Detects previously downloaded photos by filename
  - Skips re-downloading, displays "⊙ Skipped (exists): {filename}"
  - Significantly speeds up re-runs
  - Reduces unnecessary network requests
  - Safe to run multiple times
- **API Response Caching**: Falls back to cached data if API is unavailable
- **Resume Support**: Can resume interrupted downloads

## 💾 Metadata Preservation

The download scripts automatically save API responses as JSON files alongside photos:

- **race_info.json**: Race metadata (title, date, location, etc.) committed to Git
- **photos_list.json**: Photo metadata (camera info, GPS, timestamps, etc.) committed to Git

These files provide:
- **API Resilience**: Work offline if API is unavailable
- **Historical Data**: Preserve race information even if API changes
- **Future Enhancement**: Rich metadata available for gallery features
- **Debugging**: Raw API responses for troubleshooting

## 📝 License

All photos are property of their respective owners.
